---
alias:
  - conflict summary
tags:
  - rules
  - summary
  - subsystem
author: Seraaron
license: CC BY 4.0
date created: 2021-12-17 17:33
date updated: 2021-12-17 19:21
---

#### _Conflict Summary:_

1. **Everyone in the [[Understanding Conflicts|conflict]] determines their starting values:**
	- Determine your starting positions, and [[Agenda|agendas]] for the conflict
	- Calculate your 'Warding' score (ie. Presence or Poise).
	- Roll your starting 'Disposition' and add it to the base.
	- Place figurines or tokens on the [[Agora Momentum Grid.pdf|Momentum grid]] to track everything.

2. **Begin a round:**
	- Everyone simultaneously announced or reveals their chosen 'Posture' (ie. Stance or Tone).
	- Move the '[[Momentum]]' token up the grid by the amount generated by each character's Posture.
	- Start the turn order with the character who has the _highest Disposition_ and progress down to lowest.

3. **On your turn:**
	- Choose a 'Move' from the available list, based on the Posture you chose at the start of the round.
	- The Move tells you what job to roll (or offers a selection) and grants bonuses based on assets, gear tags, or circumstantial considerations.
	- Some Moves also add bonus dice from the Momentum, listed as +MD.
	- Your target difficulty is usually the Warding score of your opponent.
	- The Move will tell you the exact consequences of both success and failure, so applying the results is made easy.
	- If you fail to execute certain Moves they will offer an 'Exploit' to your target, allowing them to briefly act out of turn.
	- Move dice can be [[KISSing|KISSed]], like any other roll, but try to _keep it short and sweet_.
	- All 'Finishing Moves' apply a difficulty penalty based on the difference between your target's Disposition and the current Momentum score.
	- Once the Momentum overtakes your Disposition, you are at risk of losing the conflict.

4. **End the round:**
	- Resolve all of the _non-immediate_ effects of everyone's Moves.
	- Apply all the Disposition damage or healing amounts, and move the character tokens down or up the grid, respectively, ready for the next round.
	- Any characters who hit zero Disposition are either knocked unconscious or forced to bow out, or else they can be immediately finished off in the following round.
	- Allow the [[Facilitator|FC]] to summarize the activity of the round for any onlookers or non-participants.
	- If the conflict isn't over yet, **go back to step 2**.

5. **End the conflict:**
	- Repeat until a clear winner emerges, or until the conflict is interrupted or otherwise resolved.
	- The winning side achieves their [[Agenda|agenda]], and the losing side fails theirs.
	- Everyone on the winning side of the conflict gains a point of [[Earning Experience|exp]] in every job they used throughout the conflict, plus some additional points equal to the final MD value.
	- Everyone on the losing side of the conflict (assuming they're not dead), gains a _two points of exp_ per job, plus the final MD value.
	- If the winner is less obvious, you may have to come to a compromise.

---

- **Related Articles:** [[Martial Combat]] and [[Social Discourse]]