---
alias:
  - play procedure
  - quick play
tags:
  - CC-BY
  - rules
  - summary
author: Seraaron
license: CC BY 4.0
date created: 2021-07-21+1400
date updated: 2021-11-05 19:54

---

### *Quick Rolling Procedure:*

[[Agora]] primarily uses a [pool of six-sided dice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dice_pool) to *simulate randomness* in play, to perform *non-trivial actions*, and to *resolve conflicts* generated by the fiction.

**Use the following steps to remind you how to play any time you need to roll dice:**

1.  [[Agenda|Find your agenda]], and turn it into *an action and objective(s)*.

2.  **[[When to roll dice|Assuming you should even roll]]**, discuss the [[Difficulties and Consequences|consequences]], which [[Abilities|ability]] to use, and whether this roll should be a  [[Checks vs. Tasks|Check or a Task]]:
    -   **For [[Checks]] — Gather three dice**
        -   Add dice from *one* relevant [[Assets and Gear|asset or peice of gear]], if any.
        -   Minus any [[Stress|stress]] in the ability you're using.
    -   **For [[Tasks]] — Gather your [[Jobs#Levels in Context|Job dice]]**
        -   Add dice from *any* relevant [[Assets and Gear|assets or gear]].
        -   Add bonus dice from any other sources or special advantages.
        -   Minus any [[Stress|stress]] in the ability you're using.
    -   **Ask for [[Helping|help]] if you need it**, or if it's offered.

3.  **Roll the dice!**

4.  **Count a success for each die that *equals or exceeds your [[Rank|ability rank]]***.
    -   You may [[KISSing|KISS]] any dice that fail you — using [[Kismet]] or [[KISSing#Insight|Insights]], by [[KISSing#Stunts|Stunting]], or with the aid of your [[Specialties]] — *to re-roll them*.

5.  Whether you pass or fail depends on the [[Checks vs. Tasks|type of roll]] and the number of successes that you rolled:
    -   **For [[Checks]] — You must get *2 successes* to pass**.
        -   1 success  means *failure with a twist* — You don't get what you want, *but* something interesting happens.
        -   3+ successes is an *exceptional pass* — You get what you wanted, *and* something unexpected happens.
    -   **For [[Tasks]] — You must get *successes ≥ [[Generic Difficulty Factors|difficulty factors]]* to pass**.
		-   Each difficulty factor represents an objective to complete, a problem to solve, or an obstacle that stands in your way.
		-   *Margin of failure* indicates how close you came to success, and which obstacles were overcome, but your agenda is ultimately unfulfilled.
	- **If you failed the roll and it was deemed [[Stressful Rolls|stressful]]**, then take a point of stress in the ability you rolled with.
6.  **[[Let the dice fall where they may|Let the dice rest where they may]]**, end your [[Session Structure#Turns|turn]], and continue roleplaying.

---

-   **Next article:** [[Quick Session Plan]]
-   **Previous article:** [[Introduction]]

%%

##### Gameplay Loop:

```mermaid
graph TD;
	Agenda!-->Action;
	Action-->Roll?;
    Roll?-->Yes;
    Roll?-->No;
    No-->Roleplay;
    Roleplay-->Agenda!;
	Yes-->Consequences;
	Consequences-->Check/Task?;
	Consequences-->Roll?;
	Check/Task?-->Check;
	Check/Task?-->Task;
	Objective/s-->Factors;
	Check-->Difficulty;
	Difficulty-->Consequences;
	Job-->Factors;
	Factors-->Difficulty;
	Agenda!-->Objective/s;
	Action-->Ability;
	Check-->Ability;
	Task-->Job;
	Ability-->Rank;
	Job-->Ability;
	Ability-->Job;
	Difficulty-->Rank;
	Rank-->Dice;
	+Help-->Dice;
	+Bonus-->Dice;
	-Stress-->Dice;
	Dice-->Roll!;
	Roll!-->Specialty/Ego?;
	Specialty/Ego?-->Auto-succeed!;
	Auto-succeed!-->Result;
	Roll!-->Result;
	Roll!-->KISS?;
	KISS?-->Re-roll!;
	Re-roll!-->Result;
	Consequences-->Result;
	Result-->Roleplay;
	
```

%%
